- In this lesson, we'll learn how to describe
query parameters within an API definition.
In the first demonstration,
we build a simple end point that listed all the products
available in the H Plus Sports catalog.
It did not require API clients to provide additional data,
which isn't the case for most API operations.
Let's enhance that operation
to accept two additional query parameters,
page size and page number,
that introduce a paging capability into the API.
We'll introduce the new parameters using Swagger Editor.
When we describe parameters for an API definition,
we place them underneath the operation.
So I'm going to create a new line below get,
and here I can rely upon the auto-completion
to specify the parameters object.
Now inside of the parameters object,
we can provide an array of parameters.
The way we do that is by specifying a dash nested two spaces
within the parameters object,
then we use the in property to define the type of parameter.
You'll see that we have several options,
query, header, path, and cookie.
In this case, we want to use the query option
and this means that the parameter is going to be provided
within the query string.
Once we've specified the type of the parameter,
we then go ahead and specify its name.
The name of our first parameter is going to be page number,
and then we can go ahead and provide a description
of this parameter,
so we can see the page number to return,
and then we specify whether or not it's required.
In this case, we're not going to require the parameter
to be supplied when the operation is invoked.
Then we can provide the schema,
which outlines what the data type looks like
that our API expects to consume.
In this case, it's going to expect a simple integer
and we can give an example of what that integer looks like.
We're then going to add another item to this array
for the second query parameter,
and this query parameter is going to have
a name of page size,
and its description is going to state
that it is the number of results in the page,
and then we can go ahead and specify that it is not required
using the required property,
and then finally we can describe the type of data
we expect to consume.
It's going to be an integer,
and then we can provide an example of that data.
Let's say that it's going to be 10,
and then another thing that we can look at
is the various constraints that we can place
on this parameter.
We can set something like a minimum, a maximum,
a max length, you can even provide a pattern here,
in order to constrain the type of data provided.
Let's just go ahead and specify that they can only request
a maximum of 100 items within the page.
If we look at our interactive API documentation,
you'll now see that these two parameters
are contained within the documentation
for this API operation.